in our last update the boatyard crew had
just finished the installation of the
chine planks shear planks and all of the
side planks journeyman ship right Chris
is roughing out the outer stem also
known as a cut water by taking it from a
square and giving it bevels on both
sides using traditional tools the
shipwrights then began the process of
fitting the new cut water to the bow of
Rosie this large piece of white oak
weighed more than 300 pounds when
finished shipwright apprentice India is
finalised in the top of the transom so a
covering board can be installed on top
which is the outer rim of the deck
shipwrights Chris and Ken begin bending
in the aft covering boards next Rosie's
king plane begins to take shape in the
boat shop here shipwrights ready the
king plank for installation each half of
the king plank made from thick white oak
was 11 inches wide and 4 inches thick
and shipwrights had to drill from both
sides on each half to meet in the center
the king plank is now finished and
completely installed here journeyman
Chris is fitting the new rudder box
shipwrights Ken and Chris are fitting
the bezel for the dog house located on
the aft deck which must be done before
planking can begin because the planks
feed in to the sides of the bezel work
can now begin on installation of the
cover boards and the deck planks each
deck flank made from Douglas fir is two
and a quarter inches wide and two inches
thick and is clamped and bent to
accommodate the shape of the boat this
is known as a sprung deck
volunteer Mike is drilling for the tie
rods which helps strengthen the deck and
volunteer cliff cleans up the night
heads which are named so because they
look like Justin helmets this past
spring several area schools came to the
museum for the oystering legacy tour
which included caulking demonstrations
and teaching the students how to use
various planes project manager and
master shipwright mark Bartow stands
next to a collection of the museum's
handmade antique blacksmithing tools
that are on display next to Rosie in May
the visiting master's program welcomed
local blacksmith Michael Cardiff as he
shared his trade with the shipwrights
and their apprentices and demonstrated
how to make the necessary tools and
hardware to restore Rosie captain orbal
parks's daughter-in-law ruth parks and
granddaughter Janice Beach made a
special trip to see how the restoration
of the boat captain or OVA sailed for so
many years was coming along before
departing Ruth and Janice stopped by
collections to donate Rosie ephemera to
the museum including photos articles
artifacts from the boat and more it is
moments such as these that remind us how
we're not just preserving stuff here at
the Museum but the meaningful history
behind all of the images and artifacts
this museum keeps and cherishes stop by
the museum this summer to check on
Rosie's progress you can help out every
Saturday from ten a.m. to three pm
during our community workdays program
for more information visit our website
or find us on Facebook
you